== Welcome to the DRI Hydra Head

This repository contains the Digital Repository of Ireland's Hydra application.

There are a number of other depedencies (see below) but at this point you
will need to have a functional Rails stack and at least Java version 7. You
can check your Java version by running 'java -version' anything below 1.7x
in the output and you should update from https://java.com/en/download/

For testing and development you will need to bootstrap the project

  $ git clone git@tracker.dri.ie:drirepo/dri-app.git
  $ cd dri-app
  $ bundle install --without production
  $ cp config/database.yml.sample config/database.yml (and edit as appropriate)
  $ cp config/fedora.yml.sample config/fedora.yml (and edit as appropriate)
  $ cp config/redis.yml.sample config/redis.yml (and edit as appropriate)
  $ cp config/solr.yml.sample config/solr.yml (and edit as appropriate)
  $ bundle exec rake db:migrate
  $ bundle exec rake db:seed

Dont forget to prepare the test database with

  $ bundle exec rake db:test:prepare

You may also need to edit config/settings.yml and/or create config/settings.local.yml

To start the application for demo purposes

  $ cd dri-app
  $ rake jetty:start
  $ rake jetty:config
  $ bundle exec rails server

The db:seed step above will create 4 initial accounts:

* admin@dri.ie (admin user)
* orgmanager@dri.ie (organisation manager)
* manager@dri.ie (collection manager)
* user@dri.ie (public user)

The default password for all 3 accounts is set at install time from the password
setting in the settings.yml file. Typically this will be set to "CHANGEME" and
it should be updated as soon as possible after installation. To change the password log into the
application as each of the default users, navigate to their profile page by
clicking on the username at the top of the screen, and clicking on the 'Edit' button.
 
To run the unit tests

  $ cd dri-app
  $ rake jetty:start
  $ rake jetty:config
  $ rake rspec

To run the functional tests

  $ cd dri-app
  $ rake jetty:start
  $ rake jetty:config
  $ rake cucumber or bundle exec cucumber

To generate the app docs

  $ bundle exec rake rdoc

To generate the api docs

  $ bundle exec rake apidoc:generate

== Dependencies

If you are using homebrew on OSX

  $ brew install coreutils libtool libksba libxml2 libxslt automake autoconf openssl curl curl-ca-bundle readline lzlib gettext pkg-config libyaml redis sqlite ffmpeg gource phantomjs fits glib imagemagick ghostscript node

In order to properly ingest videos, please reinstall ffmpeg with all the the supported codecs and encoders available:

 $ brew reinstall ffmpeg --with-fdk-aac --with-ffplay --with-freetype --with-frei0r --with-libass --with-libvo-aacenc --with-libvorbis --with-libvpx --with-opencore-amr --with-openjpeg --with-opus --with-rtmpdump --with-schroedinger --with-speex --with-theora --with-tools

== Testing

The unit tests are written using rspec and the functional tests are
written with cucumber.

This project is set up to use guard to automatically run tests as they
are changed.

  $ cd dri-app
  $ bundle exec guard

The poltergeist gem is required for testing, as a result phantomjs binary
to run poltergeist.

* https://github.com/jonleighton/poltergeist
* https://github.com/ariya/phantomjs

== Settings.yml

This is where the application specific settings are located

  config/settings.yml

Please view and edit this file as needed before deploying the application.

To override settings.yml with local settings please use settings.local.yml.

== Configuation of database.yml, fedora.yml and solr.yml

The configuration files for the application

* config/database.yml
* config/solr.yml
* config/fedora.yml

are not configured initially. There are some sample configurations in
the config directory. These configuration files must be created before
development, testing, deployment. The default sample files can be copied
into the correct locations for testing and development. It is suggested
that these files are not commited to the repository.

== Background jobs

The application includes a queueing system based on Resque and Redis to allow
asynchronous processing of background jobs. This introduces the following dependencies:

  * Redis (server for the queueing system)
  * fits (for extracting metadata from a file)
  * ffmpeg (video file processing tool)
  * imagemagick (image processing)
  * Clamav (malware scanning)

For testing, the file processing tools should be installed locally with the hydra-head.
See the Dependencies section of this document for more information on installing
these and other dependencies.

By default fits should be installed in the directory /opt/local/fits/ (this can
be changed by modifying the config.fits_path setting in the file
config/initializers/sufia.rb).

By default ffmpeg should be installed in the directory /opt/local/bin (this can
be changed by modifying the ffmpeg_path setting in the file config/settings.yml).

For testing purposes Redis can be installed locally and started with the command

  $ sudo redis-server /opt/local/etc/redis.conf

The worker queues can be started with the following rake task

  $ rake environment resque:work RAILS_ENV=development QUEUE="*" COUNT="2" VERBOSE=1

To view your queues and workers you can visit the path /resque on the web
application where resque-web is mounted.

Note that the queuing code is stubbed for the Cucumber tests so you do not need a redis
host running in order to run the tests.

== ClamAV

To enable virus scanning ClamAV needs to be installed.

  $ sudo port install clamav

You will need to create the configuration file freshclam.conf in /opt/local/etc. There is an example
file in /opt/local/etc/example-freshclam.conf. Set the directory for the database files and the log

  DatabaseDirectory /opt/local/share/clamav
  UpdateLogFile /opt/local/var/log/clamav/freshclam.log

Update the virus database

  $ sudo freshclam

Install the clamav Ruby gem

  $ gem install clamav -- --with-cflags=`clamav-config --cflags` --with-ldflags=`clamav-config --libs`

Add the gem to the GemFile

  gem 'clamav'

Run bundler. Virus scanning should now take place when an asset is uploaded.

== Storage

Surrogate files are stored using the S3 interface. To create surrogates
you will need access to an S3 server. A Ceph VM with S3 Rados Gateway is available
in the drirepo repository. To start up Ceph run

  $ vagrant up ceph

When the VM is running, log in with

  $ vagrant ssh ceph

Then create a user with no max bucket limit as follows:

  $ sudo radosgw-admin user create --uid=johndoe --display-name="John Doe" --email=john@example.com --max-buckets=0

This will return an access_key and secret_key which must be added
to the hydra head's config/settings.yml or config/settings.local.yml file as follows:

  S3:
    server: 10.0.1.201
    access_key_id: 4WP751XIFXBH9G97DD91
    secret_access_key: v6tX8bZSeN9IRJAcelHLnQFrsYV8ojxgWa7rn0uz

Note that the keys should be pasted in as they appear in the output of the radosgw-admin command,
but all '\' characters should be stripped.

An alternative, if the Ceph VM is not working for you, is to use the FakeS3 gem. This is included
in the development gem group, so should have been installed by bundler.

Create a directory for the server to use to store files, and then start the server with:

 $  bundle exec fakes3 -r /path/to/fakes3_root -p 8081 -H localhost

The settings should then be modified to the following:

  S3:
    server: localhost:8081
    use_ssl: false
    access_key_id: anything
    secret_access_key: anything

== Migrating from sqlite3 to mysql

This paragraph will explain the steps requires to migrate the database configuration from sqlite3 to mysql.
The first step is to install mysql using homebrew.

  $ brew install mysql

Once the installation is completed start your mysql server and log to it.

  $ mysql.server start
  $ mysql -u root -p

In the mysql console create the 3 environment databases required by rails.

  mysql> create database dri_development;
  mysql> grant all privileges on dri_development.* to 'root'@'localhost' identified by 'password';
  mysql> flush privileges;

  mysql> create database dri_test;
  mysql> grant all privileges on dri_test.* to 'root'@'localhost' identified by 'password';
  mysql> flush privileges;

  mysql> create database dri_production;
  mysql> grant all privileges on dri_production.* to 'root'@'localhost' identified by 'password';
  mysql> flush privileges;

  mysql> exit

The next step is to change the database configurations in the [yourProjectLocation]/config/database.yml as follows:

  development:
    adapter: mysql
    database: dri_development
    username: root
    password: yourPWD
    host: localhost

  test: &test
    adapter: mysql
    database: dri_test
    username: root
    password: yourPWD
    host: localhost

  production:
    adapter: mysql
    database: dri_production
    username: root
    password: yourPWD
    host: localhost

  cucumber:
    <<: *test

The last step is to install the mysql and mysql2 gems and to setup your new mysql databases by migrating and seeding them.

  $ gem install mysql
  $ gem install mysql2

  $ bundle exec rake db:migrate
  $ bundle exec rake db:seed
  $ bundle exec rake db:test:prepare

== Configuring Analytics

The application uses Google Analytics to store usage data.

All page views are send to Google Analytics using the google-analytics-rails gem. For published objects the
object ID, parent collection ID and Depositing Organisation name are also sent.

When an object is viewed, or an asset file is downloaded the server also sends
the view and download Events to Google Analytics via the Gabba gem.

The Analytics reports (/analytics) use the Legato gem to query the Google
Analytics API.

In order for this to work a number of configuration changes are required at the
Google Analytics side.

=== Configure a Google Analytics account for the site
Create a Google Analytics account for your site and get the Tracking ID number.
This should be saved in the environments files as GA.tracker

=== Create Custom Dimensions
The following custom dimensions are required to be configured in the following order

  * Dimension1 'collection'
  * Dimension2 'organisation'
  * Dimension3 'object'

This is done via the Admin Menu - Custom Definitions - Custom Dimensions. All three should
have hit scope.

=== Create a project in the Google API console
Go to the Google API Console https://console.developers.google.com/ and view the Dashboard.
You may be prompted to create a project. If not look for the projects list at the top of
the screen beside the Google APIs logo. Click on this to see your project list and use the +
button to create a new project.

=== Create credentials for the Google API project
You will need to create a service account credential. Click on the top menu and navigate
to IAM & Admin - Service Accounts. Here create a new Service account giving it a role
of Project - Viewer.

Save the account and download the key file in p12 format. Save this to the config dir
and update the Settings.yml file with the following information:

==== profile_id
profile_id should be equal to the part after the p in the url for your analytics page. I.e.
your analytics page will have an url of the form

https://analytics.google.com/analytics/web/#embed/report-home/a00000000w000000000p1234567890/

The part after the p is the profile id, in this case 1234567890.

==== issuer && sub
These should both be the service account ID which you will find in the Service Account section
of the Google API Console https://console.developers.google.com/

==== keyfile
This should be the name of the p12 keyfile you downloaded from the Google API Console.

==== secret
This should match the secret that you were shown on downloading the p12 keyfile.

==== other
Other settings should be as follows

  disable: false
  token_credential_uri: 'https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token'
  audience: 'https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token'
  scope: 'https://www.googleapis.com/auth/analytics.readonly'




